Demand Letter against Local Union 28
 
                                                          	DATE:
BY E-MAIL
Salvatore Starace
SMART
1750 New York Avenue, NW
6th floor, Washington, DC 20006
 
Re: Sexual harassment at Local Union 28
 
Dear Mr. Starace,
We have the tremendous privilege of representing Nia Meltzer in connection with her sexual harassment claims against Local Union 28, Delta Sheet Metal, at LaGuardia Airport in violation of the New York City Human Rights Law (“NYCHRL”) and New York State Human Rights Law (“NYSHRL”).

This letter outlines a series of concerning incidents of sexual harassment at Local Union 28 that transpired through text message.

During Ms. Meltzer's time working at Local Union 28, her colleague, Christopher Barba, engaged in a campaign of anonymous harassment through phone calls and messages. Due to the nature of their jobs, it caused Ms. Meltzer and Mr. Barba to exchange phone numbers to alternate tasks. However, soon after, Mr. Barba began sending inappropriate messages, suggesting Ms. Meltzer to find a “Sugar Daddy.” Mr. Barba’s communications quickly escalated to more explicit and unsolicited content. Despite Ms. Meltzer’s decision to cease responding, Mr. Barba persisted, becoming increasingly aggressive and insistent. He eventually began to announce to Ms. Meltzer that he was aware of her movements, by asking about her whereabouts as she returned home from work. 
Ms. Meltzer explained her frustrations to personal acquaintances and coworkers, explaining how distressed she was. Ms. Meltzer’s attempt to block Mr. Barba’s number was proved futile, as he continued to harass her using new, anonymous phone numbers. The distress caused by these unwanted communications permeated her personal life, leading to her relationship being strained and feeling the need to seek therapy. Through Cash App, she figured out that Mr. Barba was the one harassing her because the app had told her the request was from someone “in your contacts'' but once she deleted Mr. Barba’s phone number the app showed that the Cash App requests came from someone “not in your contacts.” When Mr. Barba was confronted, he admitted his wrongdoings to Ms. Meltzer.  
Following Ms. Meltzer’s presentation of evidence to Local Union 28, Mr. Barba was terminated by Delta. However, the repercussions for his behavior included a demand totaling $30,000 and a mandate for him to undergo 26 hours of training. The harassment Ms. Meltzer faced inflicted a significant amount of emotional distress. 

She tried to reach out multiple times. She tried to contact a therapist 
II.  Inconsistencies with Findings 

The inconsistencies in the finding of Ms. Meltzer’s case raise significant concern regarding the transparency and the potential for Mr. Barba to return to work at Delta. With Ms. Meltzer’s compelling presentation of screenshots and explicit messages during the Trial Committee proceedings, and the fact that Mr. Barba contacted Ms. Meltzer despite being asked not to do so, led to Mr. Barba’s termination. However, after deliberations, the Trial Committee held Mr. Barba guilty on three counts rendering him a fine of $30,000- and 26-hours training for sexual harassment.

There is an apparent discrepancy between the initial termination and final disciplinary measures, showing a lack of clarity in the Union’s handling of the situation. Local Union 28 has left open the possibility for Mr. Barba to return to his position. The absence of a definitive stance on his employment status leaves uncertainty which leads to the continued uneasiness Ms. Meltzer feels while at the Local Union. 

III.   Lack of Termination shows room for Negligence Retention
 
On August 28, 2021, Ms. Meltzer begat to experience harassment from Mr. Barba after exchanging numbers with him for work related purposes. Their interactions were strictly confined to professional contexts, as they had never met outside of a work-related event. Even when Ms. Meltzer changed her phone number, Mr. Barba managed to obtain it due to necessary communication about her Covid status following a work event they had both attended. She explained the unwanted messages, calls, and explicit messages she was receiving to her coworkers.
Despite knowing the extent of the harassment endured by Ms. Meltzer over approximately eight months, Local Union 28 left the possibility open for Mr. Barba’s return. This leniency raises concerns about the union’s commitment to protect its members from harassment. Given Mr. Barba’s prolonged and aggressive behavior, there is a fear that if he is reinstated, he will continue to engage in similar offenses. 





On April 13, 2022, Ms. Meltzer met with the Jersey City Police Department because of the immense amount of harassment she was placed under. By seeking assistance from the police department, shows the impact Mr. Barba’s action had on her well-being. 

  	IV. Local Union 28’s Conduct Violates the Law

We have the tremendous privilege of representing Nia Meltzer in connection with her sexual harassment claims against Local Union 28, Delta Sheet Metal, at LaGuardia Airport in violation of the New York City Human Rights Law (“NYCHRL”) and New York State Human Rights Law (“NYSHRL”).
 This incident illustrates Local Union 28’s continuing disregard for protecting its employees from sexual harassment perpetuated by another one of its employees. The lack of protection from Mr. Barba's actions violates the New York State Human Rights Law (“NYSHRL”), and the New York City Human Rights Law (“NYCHRL”).

IV.          Conclusion 
Our client is genuinely devastated by Local Union 28’s lack of regard and protective measures. Ms. Meltzer committed to achieving complete vindication for the contemptible actions to which she was subjected. To that end, we are prepared to commence litigation immediately, and we are certain that a jury would render a large award in our clients’ favor, including punitive damages - which are uncapped under the NYSHRL and NYCHRL.
We have nonetheless sent this letter in a good faith effort to resolve this matter without litigation.
We also remind you of Local Union 28’s obligations to take immediate steps to preserve any material, including, but not limited to, all emails, instant messages, voicemails, text messages and any other communications, documents or electronically stored information related to this matter, whether in electronic or paper form.
Additionally, please take immediate steps to preserve the personal and business hard drives, back-up storage tapes, cellular telephones, computers, laptops and/or other devices of all individuals potentially having knowledge related to this action.
Please contact us no later than the end of the day Monday, June 17, 2024, if you are interested in discussing an amicable resolution of this matter short of litigation. Otherwise, we will move forward without further notice.
Yours truly,
John Elefterakis
