{
  "category": "Personal Injury Demand Letter",
  "structure": "1. Header and Date; 2. Recipient Information (Insurance Company Name, Address, and Adjuster Name); 3. Sender Information (Law Firm/Attorney Name and Contact Info); 4. Reference Block (Plaintiff, Defendant, Claim Number, Policy Number); 5. Salutation; 6. Opening Demand (Specific settlement amount or demand for policy limits, along with a response deadline); 7. Liability Section (Brief description of the accident and why the insured is at fault); 8. Damages/Medical Summary Section (Detailed breakdown of injuries, MRI/Imaging findings, injections, surgical procedures, and Range of Motion/Neurological test results); 9. Legal/Bad Faith Warning (Reminder of the insurer's duty to settle and threat of bad-faith litigation if policy limits are not tendered); 10. Closing and Signature; 11. Exhibits/Attachments (Optional, referencing police reports, medical records, or prior correspondence).",
  "details": "This document is typically drafted and sent by a Plaintiff's Attorney (Law Firm) to an Insurance Company (specifically, a Claims Adjuster). The insurance company may be representing the at-fault party (third-party claim) or the plaintiff's own insurance for Underinsured/Uninsured Motorist coverage (first-party claim). The recipient is the insurance carrier, not the court or hospital. The purpose is to formally request a monetary settlement to resolve a personal injury claim before proceeding to a lawsuit or arbitration. Key details required to generate this document include: Date of the letter, Insurance company mailing address, Adjuster's name, Claim and Policy numbers, Plaintiff and Defendant names, the specific monetary demand (e.g., $350,000 or 'policy limits'), response timeframe (e.g., 7 days), a brief factual description of the accident (e.g., T-boned in a hit-and-run), and a highly detailed, categorized medical summary (MRI findings, orthopedic/neurological diagnoses, specific surgeries, and range of motion deficits) to justify the demanded amount."
}